Updates dynamic IP address assignment configuration with whereabouts … (#62511)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-multus-ipam-object.adoc

ifdef::sr-iov[]
:!sr-iov:
endif::[]

[id="nw-multus-creating-whereabouts-reconciler-daemonset_{context}"]

> == Creating a Whereabouts-reconciler daemonset 

Reviewer: I wonder if there's a hyphen for this or not. We've never talked about reconcilers before. No hits on a docs search.

The Whereabouts-reconciler is responsible for managing dynamic IP address assignments for the pods within a cluster using the Whereabouts IP Address Management (IPAM) solution. It ensures that each pods gets a unique IP address from the specified IP address range. It also handles IP address releases when pods are deleted or scaled down.

[NOTE]
====
You can also use a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` custom resource for dynamic IP address assignment. 
====

> The Whereabouts-reconciler daemonset is automatically created when you configure an additional network through the Cluster Network Operator. It is not automatically created when you configure an additional network from a YAML manifest. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Whereabouts-reconciler daemon set is automatically created when you configure an additional network through the Cluster Network Operator. It is not automatically created when you configure an additional network from a YAML manifest. 
```

To trigger the deployment of the Whereabouts-reconciler daemonset, you must manually create a `whereabouts-shim` network attachment by editing the Cluster Network Operator `config.yaml` file.

Use the following procedure to deploy the Whereabouts-reconciler daemonset. 

.Procedure

> . Update your Cluster Network Operator `config.yaml` file to add the `whereabouts-shim` network attachment definition. For example:

Reviewer: There's actually no `config.yaml` for this; The CNO configuration is what's considered a _singleton_, the object is created as part of cluster installation. Well, someone can modify the defaults for it, but that won't help someone here.

To do this, you'd need to use `oc edit` on the custom resource. I think this is what we're looking for:

`oc edit network.operator.openshift.io cluster`

And the `additionalNetworks` array will be in there, possibly populated with objects, if the user has already added some this way.

This approach is basically what's in here: `modules/nw-kube-proxy-configuring.adoc`

To trigger the deployment of the Whereabouts reconciler daemonset, you must manually create a `whereabouts-shim` network attachment by editing the Cluster Network Operator custom resource file.

Use the following procedure to deploy the Whereabouts reconciler daemonset. 

.Procedure

. Edit the `Network.operator.openshift.io` custom resource (CR) by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit network.operator.openshift.io cluster
----

. Modify the `additionalNetworks` parameter in the CR to add the `whereabouts-shim` network attachment definition. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: Network
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  additionalNetworks:
  - name: whereabouts-shim
    namespace: default
    rawCNIConfig: |-
      {
       "name": "whereabouts-shim",
       "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
       "type": "bridge",
       "ipam": {
         "type": "whereabouts"
       }
      }
    type: Raw
----

. Save the file and exit the text editor.

> . Enter the following command to apply the `whereabouts-shim` to your Cluster Network Operator configuration:

Reviewer 2: I do not think you need step 4 any more after you using step 1

Reviewer 2: For step 4, you can add verification step:
`[weliang@weliang openshift-tests-private]$ oc get all -n openshift-multus | grep whereabouts-reconciler
pod/whereabouts-reconciler-jnp6g                   1/1     Running   0          6s
pod/whereabouts-reconciler-k76gg                   1/1     Running   0          6s
pod/whereabouts-reconciler-k86t9                   1/1     Running   0          6s
pod/whereabouts-reconciler-p4sxw                   1/1     Running   0          6s
pod/whereabouts-reconciler-rvfdv                   1/1     Running   0          6s
pod/whereabouts-reconciler-svzw9                   1/1     Running   0          6s
daemonset.apps/whereabouts-reconciler          6         6         6       6            6           kubernetes.io/os=linux   6s
[weliang@weliang openshift-tests-private]$ 
`

Reviewer: @weliang1, I like this, thanks!

Author: @weliang1 @jab-rh I think we're finally good here. Thanks for the review!

To trigger the deployment of the Whereabouts reconciler daemonset, you must manually create a `whereabouts-shim` network attachment by editing the Cluster Network Operator custom resource file.

Use the following procedure to deploy the Whereabouts reconciler daemonset. 

.Procedure

. Edit the `Network.operator.openshift.io` custom resource (CR) by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit network.operator.openshift.io cluster
----

. Modify the `additionalNetworks` parameter in the CR to add the `whereabouts-shim` network attachment definition. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: Network
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  additionalNetworks:
  - name: whereabouts-shim
    namespace: default
    rawCNIConfig: |-
      {
       "name": "whereabouts-shim",
       "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
       "type": "bridge",
       "ipam": {
         "type": "whereabouts"
       }
      }
    type: Raw
----

. Save the file and exit the text editor.

> . Verify that the `whereabouts-reconciler` resources deployed successfully by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: Is the `whereabouts-reconciler` a resource or a daemon set?
